Prime Minister Modi first got the
International Yoga Day approved in the United Nations
and now he is preparing to
create a world record of mass yoga asanas on 21st June.
In the half-hour event organized on International Yoga Day on 21st June at Rajpad, the
Prime Minister himself will participate in yoga asanas along with more than 35,000 people.
Yoga is our ancient traditional invaluable gift;
it is a holistic approach to health and well-being
[Music]. The
work of connecting the world can also be done
through yoga; we should move ahead with this dream.
Let us
work towards starting an International Yoga Day. A
bright heart and
mind are needed for a successful life. The lesson that the
world has learned about staying healthy through yoga, originating from India's eternal tradition, is
now
resonating with the new form of the International Day
[Music]. By
counting the use of this International Day of ancient yoga as a success of his government,
Prime Minister Narendra
Modi is working towards creating a new world record of yoga practice across the world. Narendra Modi had
appealed to celebrate Yoga Day in the United Nations.
With the approval of record-breaking countries, the United
Nations unanimously approved it.  It has also been done. There will be
two main programs in this, one is
our mass yoga demonstration on Rajpath
in which we are expecting 35000 people
that everyone will come and
perform yoga, their training
etc. is already going on, second program of ours is
our two day international
conference on 11th and
12th, 21st and sorry 21st and 22nd, in which
our yoga enthusiasts and
yoga experts from outside will also
participate as resource persons, the
ministry has tried that such a big
event is being organized, 35000 people will perform yoga together, so
if a record is made in it then it will be
good, it will be a very big one
because this day has great importance and secondly, the
first International Yoga Day is being organized
and the Government of India is making so much effort, so
we are trying that if such a
record is made then it will be
a very big achievement for us in the future as well, it will be
proposed by the United Nations on 21st June.  On the occasion of International Yoga Day, the
Modi government is preparing to set a
new record in the Guinness Book of World Records.
For this, the Prime Minister will be seen performing yoga for half an hour with 35,000 people simultaneously on the
Rajpath between India Gate and Vijay Chowk and the
entire grounds and roads of the Vote Club.
On this occasion, ministers of the Modi government, MPs, government
officials, employees, school children, police and
security forces personnel, and NCC cadets will
demonstrate various yoga asanas. To
make the Yoga Day historic, many
famous personalities of the country, including Bollywood celebrities, have been invited to participate in the yoga demonstration on Rajpath.
These will include Amitabh Bachchan, Shilpa Shetty,
Virat Kohli, wrestler Sushil Kumar, yoga guru
Ramdev and many other well-known personalities. The
world has been acquainted with the magic of yoga centuries
ago, but
now, through the magic of Prime Minister Narendra Modi,
preparations are underway to showcase it to the world in a new way.
Prime Minister Modi is busy
celebrating International Yoga Day with such pomp and show that the
world will simply be left watching. In fact,
through the same yoga that has guided saints and sages for centuries and has enhanced the lives of common people, Prime Minister Modi is trying to
improve the appearance and health of his government.  Manjeet Negi is
preparing to create a world record on Rajpath
with cameraman Waqar Delhi
Aaj
Tak Prime Minister Narendra Modi, after forming the government, had
decided to take his charisma to new heights
Appealed to the United Nations to celebrate World Yoga Day Created a separate AYUSH Ministry in the government Did
not miss any opportunity to promote Yoga during his world tour
[Music]
Last year on May 26, Narendra Modi not
only took oath as the Prime Minister but also turned the
highest house of politics into a temple by bowing before the Parliament
And as soon as he
stepped into the United Nations, it was as if a yogi from the land of India started speaking from Modi's heart
Yoga is not just a
mere exercise but a means to achieve
harmony with oneself, the world and nature
It can help in fighting climate change by
bringing about a change in our lifestyle and
creating awareness among us
Let us
work towards starting an International Yoga Day The
world listened attentively to what
Prime Minister Modi was saying The Prime Minister of the
country from which the world got the gift of Yoga appealed to the world, so the
Prime Minister of the same country appealed to the world for the promotion
of Yoga  The world, blessed with this boon,
thanked India for the invention of yoga. The
United Nations declared June 21st as World
Yoga Day.
Countries agreed to Modi's Yoga Day appeal
[music].
Yoga has the power to unite the heart, the
mind, the soul, the body, and life. The
great miracle of uniting one's life with one's destiny is
hidden in yoga exercises
[music]. The
humility of bowing down to the earth and prostrating before it is
connected to yoga. Every heritage that redefines the evening is connected to yoga. Therefore, Modi has
found in Yoga Day a perfect opportunity to connect with the world through yoga and enhance his image as a leader who unites the world.
Clearly, where there is something unifying,
how can anyone deny yoga?
Yoga is spread across the world
in many forms, but on June 21st, every form of yoga is going to be
united in Yoga Day.
Even Modi's staunchest opponents are speaking cautiously about this achievement
because the matter is related to yoga. In
fact, long ago, Modi had established a vibrant relationship with various organizations and ashrams associated with Indian yoga, from yoga guru
Ramdev to Sadhguru Sri Sri Ravi Shankar,
and the center  After forming the government in 2014,
Modi established a separate Ministry of AYUSH to promote and propagate yoga. He successfully implemented his
initiative to introduce yoga to the world.
I don't know if the Green Book of
World Records had been invited today, it
might have been established in the world record. In
a year,
millions of people in more than 600 districts of India are practicing yoga from a single place.
This would be considered a major global
event,
but in our country, even small things are
recorded as record-breaking. We are
not used to this, so perhaps we may
not have paid attention to it because we
believe in karma.
Even before becoming Prime Minister, as Chief Minister, Narendra
Modi was known for his direct association with yoga.
In Gujarat, Modi was always at the forefront in connecting ministers
and MLAs as well as the common people with yoga. By
creating a world record on Yoga Day, Prime Minister
Modi is busy strengthening his image as a world leader,
while the government has
also deeply involved like-minded organizations in this work.
In one stroke,
Prime Minister Modi has brought together the government, society, and various
organizations around the world.  The government has made preparations to woo the yoga
lovers of the country through Yoga Day.
Manjeet Negi with cameraman Waqar, Delhi
Aaj Tak. The
entire government is busy in making the International Yoga Day celebrations on Rajpath a success. The
government has appealed to all officers and employees to be
present at the yoga program on Rajpath. On the
lines of 26th January, preparations are being made for 21st June
in Delhi.
Narendra Modi's morning begins with yoga at the Prime Minister's residence, 7 RCR.
When the first light of dawn shines on the green velvety field of dusk, then with
eyes closed in appropriate postures through pranayam, meditation,
Mudra Bank, Jan Dhan,
Swachhta Mission, and countless old and new
schemes rise and fall in the PM's mind with every breath.
This is the reason that whenever and wherever he
gets a chance, Narendra Modi
never forgets to tell the world about the miracle of yoga.
When Modi will demonstrate yoga exercises with thousands of people for World Yoga Day, then
like 26th January, tight
security arrangements are being prepared for the yoga demonstration on 21st June in a radius of about 1.5 km from India Gate to Vijay Chowk.
17 roads around Rajpath will also be
sealed for yoga practice and
NSG commandos will surround the entire area from ground to sky.
Starting from 7:00 am to 6:30 pm,
Modi and 35,000 people will perform yoga for half an hour. Yoga events will
also be organised in other states of the country during this period.
Major yoga programmes will be organised on World Yoga Day in more than 190 countries of the world including America, England, China, France, Germany.
Outside the country, the
Ministry of External Affairs has already started monitoring the yoga programmes. The
Ministry of AYUSH has sent an invitation to all the officers and
employees of all the offices to perform yoga with the Prime Minister. It has been
instructed
that all the officers should
reach the occasion of World Yoga Day without any check post. Although
this is not mandatory attendance,
but if the Prime Minister himself
arrives on Rajpath in yoga attire, then there will be no end to the wonders.
This new miracle of World Yoga Day is
also attracting the business world.
According to the data, the annual turnover of yoga in the world has
reached Rs 2 lakh crore, in
which yoga-related treatments
Ayurvedic medicines and many benefits are included. The
miracle of yoga is seen behind a large part of tourism in India. This is the reason why the
government has put in all its efforts to promote yoga.
Manjeet Singh Negi, Delhi
Aaj
Tak. Preparations for
International Yoga Day are
underway through every medium from social media to publicity. The Prime Minister himself has
become a yoga instructor and is explaining the power of yoga
because the yoga which the world is crazy about, has the
power to solve every problem. Modi
understands very well that
you can get acquainted with new yoga philosophy every day on the tweets of the minister. Prime Minister Modi
himself is persuading the whole world to celebrate Yoga Day
because he knows
that the power of yoga has the power to eradicate anger from every human being.
Yoga alone can also eliminate every mental virus related to terrorism and diseases
forever.
This is the reason why there is a race to patent various forms of yoga in America.
China is
promoting the traditional Tai Chi technique as yoga in its country. Bureau
Report Aaj
Tak. That's all in our special presentation. Keep
watching Aaj Tak
[Music]